Acrobatics Agility Moving quickly through difficult terrain. Jumping. Avoiding falling damage. Dodging Ranged attacks.
Alchemy Intelligence Performing experiments and constructing petty enchantments. Understanding alchemical language and methods. Analyzing chemicals, plants, and metals.
Animal Handling Personality Calming wild animals. Training and caring for domestic animals. Riding beasts of burden. Identifying different animals.
Athletics Brawn Moving forcefully through difficult terrain. Climbing. Swimming. Exerting physical strength.
Command Personality Issuing orders to subordinates. Coercion through force of will. Coordinating allies.
Counsel Personality Treating lost Resolve and Trauma.
Craft Intelligence Creating, maintaining, and repairing structures, tools, and devices. Knowledge of armorsmithing, blacksmithing, leatherworking, carpentry, masonry, bowmaking, weaponcrafting, and various fields of engineering.
Discipline Willpower Resisting shock in battle. Resisting coercion or persuasion. Maintaining concentration. Recovering from lost Resolve and Trauma.
Healing Intelligence Treating physical damage and Injuries. Diagnosing and treating disease and poison. Determining cause of death.
Insight Awareness Inspecting people, places, and information closely. Recognizing patterns. Discerning if someone is lying. Recognizing the presence of the unnatural or supernatural.
Linguistics Intelligence Speaking additional languages. Literacy. Recognizing languages and accents. Deciphering ancient languages or codes. Translating documents or conversations.
Lore Intelligence Basic knowledge useful for day-to-day life. Knowledge of history and current events. Ability to research historical events through sources such as The Book of Skelos.
Melee Agility Making Melee attacks. Identifying melee weapons and their Qualities, and caring for them.
Observation Awareness Finding hidden things. Noticing things that are unusual or simply out of the ordinary.
Parry Coordination Blocking Melee attacks. Identifying combat styles.
Persuade Personality Convincing others to do as you wish, by charm or by intimidation.
Ranged Weapons Coordination Making Ranged attacks. Identifying ranged weaponry. Maintaining ranged weaponry.
Resistance Brawn Recovering naturally from loss to Vigor and Trauma. Resisting the effects of poison, disease, and environmental effects.
Sailing Coordination Operating and Identifying boats from the River Styx, the Western Ocean, to the Vilayet Sea.
Society Personality Knowledge of economics across the Hyborian kingdoms. Skill at buying and selling items and finding a good deal. Dealing with merchant contracts on the Road of Kings.
Sorcery Willpower Recognizing sorcery in action or from its effects. Knowledge of sorcerers and their doings. Casting spells. Identifying the presence of the unnatural.
Stealth Agility Moving quietly. Hiding quickly. Hiding objects on one’s person. Disguising oneself.
Survival Awareness Navigating an unfamiliar environment. Finding shelter. Avoiding environmental hazards. Tracking others.
Thievery Awareness Picking locks or disarming traps. Sleight of hand. Identifying strengths and weaknesses in security measures. Understanding crime and criminal activity. Interacting with criminals.
Warfare Intelligence Mass combat tactics, logistics, and strategies. Operating and maintaining siege weapons. Commanding groups in combat. Battlefield reconnaissance.