Fight Skills

From kicks and punches to bites and hair pulling. You need to have an idea of what to do in order to win a fight. These skills will define your combat style, you may choose to focus on a single one or mix them around, it all depends on what strategy you are following.

Brawl You focus on Non-Ranged combat, making contact with punches, kicks, tackles, bites etc.
Channel Pokémon control the energy of their Type, using this specialty allows them to use their Ranged attacks a lot better.
Clash Pokémon attacks often clash during battle, use this specialty to block a foe’s attack with one of your own.
Evasion Dodging attacks is what you know best, you focus on cover, jumping out of range or fluid movements of the body to minimize the damage.
Throw Trainers use this ability to throw Pokéballs, rocks, bait, darts and other projectiles with precise aim.
Weapons Humans don’t have Moves but they can use weapons and traps if their Pokémon isn’t around to protect them.

Survival Skills

Whether you want to hike through the wild or just take a stroll around the city, you need to know how to avoid the dangers that lurk in every corner.

Alert This represents the sharpness of your senses, it may be a good eyesight, a great hearing, a notorious sense of smell. Being alert helps you react to danger a lot faster.
Athletic Run, Climb, Jump, Swim, Walk upside down! You know how to get the most out of your body.
Nature Creating a fire from scratch, knowing what kind of plants you can eat, building shelter and knowing the cycles of nature will aid you to use her graces in your favor.
Stealth The best way to avoid danger is not letting it find you, you train yourself to be swift and silent, blending with your surroundings to go unnoticed.

Contest Skills

These skills cover everything you need in order to make an excellent performance in Pokémon Contests and most social situations, so improving these skills might save you from unnecesary battles.

Allure Pokémon will often try to make you feel like they are interested in you, either to win your favor or prevent being attacked. How genuine that feels to others depends on this specialty.
Empathy Humans are empathetic creatures, your ability to sympathize to other’s feelings and share their joys and sorrows will be measured by this skill.
Etiquette Some situations require good manners and elegance, refinement, gentleness, and grace. They make the difference between the prince and the pauper.
Intimidate Other situations will require a spiteful glare, a sharp comment or a well-timed rise from your seat. Intimidation is useful to force or manipulate others to do what you want.
Perform Dancing, Singing, Acting, Impersonating, and Bluffing! Anything that may need to pull out a convincing act will get better if you specialize in Perform.

Knowledge Skills

Humans need to know a lot of things in life, while some people just learn what they are taught in school, others will seek answers through the path of wisdom. A Pokémon would need an excellent Insight and Clever scores to be able to grasp these concepts.

Crafts You can build anything with your hands, some tools, and a few materials. Drawing, sculpting, cooking, repairing, etc.
Lore Knowledge about the different species of Pokémon, their legends and folk tales about the location and origin of the rare Pokémon in the area.
Medicine How to take care of wounds, first aid, emergency care, apllying medicine, and even creating your own remedies will be possible if you specialize in Medicine.
Science Choose any science or research field you want. For example: computers, technology, chemistry, physics, geology, engineering, Pokémon Evolution, etc. You can pick any field you want! You may keep studying and add other Science fields to specialize further.
